Kerbal Space Program 2 had a very Rocky
release last month and no I'm not
talking about the planet from the Beyond
home planet pack but yesterday the first
patch finally rolled out it only took
them a month was it worth it oh my
sweetheart Deborah yes it was in this
video I'll be going over some of the
changes fixes improvements salads
optimizations and new bugs that the
first patch has brought talk about the
performance of the game now and also go
into what the future may hold and if you
like what you see please consider
subscribing for future updates I'll be
covering
quick disclosure before delving into
this I am running this game on a 3070 TI
with Graphics set to high at 1080p my
CPU is a 9th gen I5 overclocked to 4.7
gigahertz and I have 64 gigabytes 3200
megahertz ddr4 Ram also when talking
performance I won't be speeding up any
footage so you can see how it runs in
real time
the big one the question on everyone's
Minds how is the performance after the
first patch well surely it can't be any
worse right well I've put together this
style on here because I saw Matt's video
and I thought I could make it look
better shame it doesn't work but with
eight Rapier engines plastered on it's
the perfect test for how well the game
runs if you aren't aware Rapier engines
and well any jet engines on release were
notoriously bad for frames in my air
launch Saturn 5 video I was getting a
massive two to four frames per second
using 16 of the largest jet engines in
the game I designed this guy on before
the patch and was attempting to fly it
with the eight rapiers and I was getting
about five to six frames per second now
with the new optimizations made in the
game I get 20. an incredible boost four
times the amount which actually makes
this somewhat fun to fly Kerbal Space
Program 2 is fun now well there's still
a long way to go but actually over the
course of this video I'll probably be
near enough address every complaint I
had when I did my first review but we'll
get on to that with regards to Flying
Rockets I only have a few concrete
values for pre-patch but that aside it
feels noticeably smoother when launching
even when moving the camera around and
looking at the Space Center which having
racked up quite a few hours in this game
over the last three weeks I can tell you
was not exactly buttery hell I wouldn't
have even called it margarine with the
50 part rocket launching from the Space
Center I now get about 26 to 30 frames
per second with 100 parts that drops
down to about 20 to 25 and using my
space shuttle which is just over 150
parts that drops again to about 15 to
20. one thing that I did notice was
flying the space shuttle about 20
kilometers above the sea level into its
flight looking back at the Space Center
my frames did tank very briefly they
dropped down to seven frames per second
however for most of the launch it was 15
to 20 and 7 frames per second was about
the max maximum that I was getting
pre-patch so even though it dropped at
its lowest point it was about where I
was getting before bigacraft will mean
less frames but a two to four times
increase in the frames that I was
getting pre-patch well that is
absolutely amazing and everything is
certainly running a lot faster even the
monsters so vast improvements on Jets
and Rockets brilliant space for me was
never a big concern frames wise and less
I was looking at kerbin and really the
only times I was getting Major
Performance issues was around the Space
Center now however one amazing upgrade
is performance in the Vehicle Assembly
Building everything inside whilst you're
constructing the 69 runs so much better
than before Everything feels snappier
smoother and just overall a lot easier
to start getting Rockets designed this
was a big problem pre-patch because when
you started getting some bigger designs
the frames would really drop to a crawl
and being someone that makes somewhat
large Rockets this has been a massive
Improvement in my opinion I do also have
some values to give for some other
Hardware these were taken from a PC with
the 12th generation i7 and RTX 2070 as
the GPU 32 gigabytes of RAM running at
3600 megahertz and the game was being
run on medium settings at 1080p this
will be my footage as I didn't receive
any from the person that sent me these
just the values but they are as follows
at the Space Center launching a 50 part
rocket with six engines running gave 35
to 42 frames per second a 100 part
rocket with 12 engines running gave 25
to 31 frames per second and finally a
150 part launch vehicle with 16 engines
running at the Space Center gave 21 to
26 frames per second this is an amazing
Improvement pretty much doubling or
tripling frames in some cases now the
frames that I was getting were a little
lower than what I just stated there now
that could be because I was running the
game on high and it is more taxing on my
system but I personally believe believe
it's because I was recording at the same
time using OBS OBS will be taking up
some resources on my computer that would
otherwise have been able to be given to
ksp2 but yes in order to get footage I
do need to record like I can't just yeah
it's how you record and it does require
some sort of resources to be able to run
that program at the same time but anyway
a big thanks to Newt guy for sending me
this information and for being an
amazing mod on my Discord cheers man and
that about wraps up the performance and
if I'm honest I am incredibly happy with
the improvements made now to delve into
the changes made bug fixes salads and
more
okay so what changes have been made
other than the optimizations to
Performance I've already mentioned the
short answer is Lots seriously I've
included a link to the changelog in the
description of this video because there
is no way I can go through every single
one of them but I will talk about the
major ones here and if you want to check
out the full patch notes well you know
where to find them starting off a simple
warning message has been added to the
game when it loads better safe than
sorry there have been some subtle
changes to the UI the colors are ever so
slightly different a tad darker by the
looks of things I personally didn't mind
the old colors but these new ones are
nice too or maybe this is just me
imagining it I've checked against the
old UI and it does look a little
different but as said it's only minor
however the map UI definitely has
changed color quite considerably there's
lots of new fancy colors now and overall
it looks much better the arrow to bring
up Delta V has now moved to next to the
staging stack which I think is a more
intuitive position to place it the
resources on the staging stack have lost
their segments which I personally think
makes them easier to read still no
thrust to wait per stage or burn time
times but hey one step at a time the
maneuver planner has had a massive
overhaul it's still the same push and
pull design but it's much easier to see
what you're pushing and pulling when you
zoom out it now stays the same size
making it much easier to adjust
Maneuvers whilst looking at different
bodies no not those kind of bodies you
still can't make Maneuvers while paused
but in general with the new maneuver
node layout and small features
implemented it's much nicer to plan out
your Journeys more on this in the bug
fixes section though lights now actually
provide light previously they didn't do
much at all providing about as much
illumination as a 40 year old lava lamp
now you can really light up your vessels
and stations and get some cracking
Beauty shots of them in the dark when
launching an uncrewed vessel or a vessel
that has both crew and a probe core
rather than having an empty Kerbal seat
in place of the probe it will display a
circuit only minor but a nice touch the
camera can no longer no clip through to
raid which some of you might not like
but it makes it easier to get static
shots of rockets launching which I
really enjoy entering a new sphere of
influence exiting or entering a planet's
atmosphere or landing on a planet's
surface will have the game Auto saved
for you with how much it was crashing
previously that's certainly welcome that
being said I've not experienced any
crashes so far since the patch but I'm
sure there's bound to be some eventually
on to the VAB changes whenever you now
save a new vessel rather than taking a
screenshot of what the camera is looking
at when you save the saved image will be
a blueprint of the vessel I know I found
it quite tricky telling skylon 4 apart
from skylon 1 2 and 3 and 5. so this
change might make it easier to find the
correct craft the center of Mass center
of thrust and center of pressure
indicators are now translucent I'm a big
fan of this as when designing skylon
once again that didn't work I had those
up all the time because I needed to know
where they were but not being able to
see through them made it a little tricky
to move parts around those locations
this is a welcome change when building
planes or anything horizontal rather
than vertical the middle Mouse button
will now move you horizontally rather
than vertically which is what I imagine
was always intended just not implemented
until now then those are really the big
changes as mentioned there are far more
than just this and if you want to see
them all definitely go check out the
patch notes
oh boy there have been some bug fixes in
fact I don't think I've ever seen so
much fixed on one page since maybe that
time in the clip wait hang on no this
isn't my dear diary anyway as per the
last segment I'll be going over major
fixes here but won't be listing them all
starting off with one that may cause
dismay to some the reverse thrust Kraken
Drive is no more before this patch if
you blocked an engine's exhaust it would
generate an insane amount of thrust in
the opposite direction also I'm told I
personally would never get up to
anything that involves doing stupid
things or breaking the game
but yes this has now been patched out
but I'm sure it won't be long until a
new Kraken Drive is discovered talking
of crack and drives docking ports have
now been given a makeover I wasn't able
to test this myself due to limited time
but apparently dockingforce
re-acquisition has been toned down
massively in my shuttle station video
this caused an unexpected Kraken attack
when two parts I just decoupled decided
to dock together this might make
payloads behave more sensibly now and
also make orbital construction a little
easier continuing in the same Trend a
bug has been fixed where you lost
control over a vessel once it was
undocked something else I ran into and
something I'm very glad has been fixed I
did previously get around it by
disabling comnet now maybe I can turn
that feature on again another bug I ran
into was orbits of vessels changing
constantly when not under Time Warp for
no reason whatsoever this I couldn't
find information on in the patch notes
but was playing the game no longer did
this so I assume this was fixed but
maybe I just got lucky this time around
another one that also appears to be
fixed but I couldn't find any info on
was uncontrolled vessels just randomly
deciding they didn't want to space
anymore maybe I just can't read but in
the four or so hours I played whilst
filming for this video this didn't
happen to me once if you're now a base
CrossFit so no longer will your upper
stages be drained by your first age
engines and decouplers actually decouple
these bugs were all rather annoying but
the next few bug fixes have been a
complete game changer for me and
actually make me want to carry on
playing Kerbal Space Program too now
they've been sorted and they're all
pretty much to do with planning
Maneuvers the first one sticky orbit
markers oh my God I wanted this so much
in fact so much so it was one of the
first mods that I downloaded for ksp2 in
order to fix this pre-patch whenever you
wanted to adjust a maneuver node if you
had pinned an orbit marker it would
unpin as soon as you selected the
maneuver this is no longer the case and
makes fine-tuning intercepts and
encounters possible without a billion
different clicks this fix is made
interplanetary travel much more feasible
something I would quite like to do a lot
of in ksp2 but talking of interplanetary
travel previously whenever you plotted a
maneuver that entered another body
sphere of influence your trajectory just
flat out disappeared you were really
Flying Blind and had no idea if you'd be
10 kilometers away from the surface of
Juna or 10 000 kilometers this has now
been fixed and we can actually see that
the burn we just performed will
unfortunately or maybe happily for some
of you give us a direct impact or well
we can see just how close to the planet
we're going to end up these two fixes
together certainly make interplanetary
travel not only feasible now but
actually somewhat enjoyable and finally
we can now see just how long in seconds
a maneuver will take before we start it
gone are the days of blasting your
engine and overshooting when you only
had a burn that would last less than a
second yeah these changes are great for
getting anywhere and I mean that's the
whole point of the game right right
once again if you want to see all the
fixes check the patch notes there are
many many more just be warned War and
Peace was a sure to read
if I'm honest many of the bugs I've run
into have now been fixed I'm sure there
are others that need fixing but this is
from my personal experience and what has
been said by the developers in order to
improve optimization changes to the
runway lights had to occur I've not seen
this yet but apparently now from a
distance the lights are quite difficult
to spot the devs are working on making
this better though another new bug or
well I'm not sure if it's a bug or a
feature is that when hiding the UI by
pressing F2 more affectionately known as
screenshot mode the timewalk bar remains
not the end of the world but it did make
it annoying to get the thumbnail for
this video and lastly a couple of issues
still with the pause button like being
spammed by a million pause unpause
messages whenever you do pause and
unpause oh and also sometimes moving
down to normal speed from High Time Warp
will now pause the game and won't let
you unpause unless you press the
dedicated button for it small gripes but
yeah still bugs that are present
yes this patch does not seem to have
broken any of the mods I had running
prior to the update I did remove
Community fixes though because I wanted
to check that sticky orbit markers were
now in the base game that being said I
am aware space warp has had a new
release and I'm sure many other mod
makers are currently working furiously
to update their mods for this new
version of the game that however will
all be covered on my next mod video next
Wednesday
there are many other issues resolved in
this patch that I've not really gone
into things like fixes for joint
rigidity on engine plates multiple other
bug fixes and additions but I intended
this to be a short video and now look
where we are the devs are already hard
at work on patch 2 which won't likely
contain thermodynamic mechanics we
probably won't see those for another
couple of patches but yes they say it
will be another few weeks until the next
one but honestly with the amount of work
gone into this patch I really don't mind
they've turned the game from a laggy
buggy near unplayable mess into
something I'm actually quite enjoying
right now and that's just from one patch
there are still obviously many issues
such as no thrust to weight ratio per
stage amongst other basic quality of
life features missing from Kerbal Space
Program one but for now we have mods
like stage info the add that
functionality back but yeah one step at
a time I've linked the statement from
Nate Simpson outlining what future
updates may bring but overall I'm
incredibly impressed with the work
already done and cannot wait for the
next update a big thanks to Mr Blue Star
Pentium so not the hero type that unreal
guy so yeah and the rest of my patrons
are members for their continued support
I've been kanasa like And subscribe for
more and I will see you later